# US001
=======================================


# 1. Requirements

>__"As a system manager, I want to create a standard category."__



**Demo1** As a System Manager, I want to create a standard category and add it to the system

- Demo1.1. Create a Standard Root Category

- Demo1.2. Create a Child Standard Category

This requirement was interpreted as a direct possibility for the system manager to create a new 
standard root category , introducing the desired name as an argument or as a possibility to create
a new child standard category, selecting the parent category along with the desired designation.


# 2. Analysis
##2.1 Domain Model Context

## 2.2 Product Owner

Some questions were asked to the product owner (PO) in order to make some important design decisions.


> Q: What is the expected to happen when the system manager tries to insert an already existing category name?

> A: It should not be possible to insert an already existing category

> Q: What is the expected to happen when the system manager adds "energy" and "Energy" ? Are they
> considered to be the same category?

> A: "Energy" and "energy" should be the same category. Forcing the categories to have the same format seems positive
> (i.e, all capitalized letters, all lower case characters or having only the first letter capitalizes )

> Q: Should the System Manager be allowed to add new standard categories after the application has reached the user?
> If so, should all the families receive an update, or should only the new families receive it?

> A: The System Manager can change the names throughout the time and all the families should receive the update. 
> The resulting problem (a new standard category having the same designation as a subcategory) ,can easily be
> solved by making telling apart the standard categories from the custom ones possible.

## 2.3 Decisions

-It was decided that the root categories name's must be unique. In the same tree, categories at the same level
cannot have the same name. Parent and child categories are also restricted from taking the same name.

-It was decided that the categories can have more than one word and that every first letter
would be capitalized. Special characters, in general, are not allowed except for apostrophes and
accents, commonly used in the portuguese and english languages.

-It was decided to correct certain typing mistakes such as the spacing between characters
when the system administrator types the standard  category name but no spelling corrections were applied

-It was assumed that a standard category does not have a length inferior to 3 characters


## 2.4. US Dependencies

This User Story does not depend on other User Stories. However, US002 depends on this US.

```puml
@startuml
title SSD - Create a Standard Category
skinparam monochrome true
autonumber
actor "System Manager"
participant ":System"

"System Manager"->":System" : crate a standard category
activate "System Manager"
activate ":System"
":System"-->"System Manager": ask data (designation, parentCategory)
deactivate "System Manager"
deactivate ":System"
"System Manager"->":System": inputs data

activate ":System"
activate "System Manager"
":System"-->"System Manager": Inform Success
deactivate ":System"
deactivate "System Manager"
@enduml
```


# 3. Design


## 3.1. Functionalities Flow

```plantuml
@startuml
skinparam monochrome true
title Create a Root Standard Category
autonumber
actor "System Manager"
participant ":UI"
participant ":CreateStandardCategory\nController" as controller
participant ":categoryService:\nCategoryService" as cs
participant ":Category Repository" as cr

activate "System Manager" 
"System Manager"->":UI" : create new standard Category
activate ":UI"
":UI"-->"System Manager": ask data (i.e categoryDesignation)
deactivate ":UI"
"System Manager"->":UI": inputs required data (categoryDesignation)
activate ":UI"
":UI"->"controller": createRootStandardCategory(categoryDesignation)
activate controller

"controller"->cs : createRootStandardCategory(designatiom,parentID)
activate cs

cs--> Designation ** :create 

Designation--> Designation : validateDesignation(Designation)
activate Designation
deactivate Designation
cs-->cr :isRootDesignationUnique(Designation)
activate cr
cr-->cs :boolean result= true
deactivate cr
cs-->cs :generateCatagoryID()
cs-->cr :isCategoryUnique(categoryID)
activate cr
cr-->cs :boolean
deactivate cr
opt result == true
cs-->Standard ** :  create
cs-->cr : add
cr--> cr :add
activate cr
deactivate cr
end
deactivate cr

cs-->controller: inform success
deactivate cs

controller-->":UI":inform success
deactivate controller

":UI"-->"System Manager":inform success
deactivate ":UI"
deactivate "System Manager"
@enduml
```

The sequence diagram above represents the process of creating a standard root category.
The system manager must introduce the desired category name in the UI as input, and must not introduce a parent category.
The application can answer in one of two ways:
-inform success if the category is successfully created and is added to the system
-inform failure if the standard category's addition to the system fails.
This sequence diagram represents only the first option, where the standard category is successfully
created and added to the system.
The reasons as to why the process can fail are the following:
- The System Manager introduces an invalid designation (for example an empty designation)
- The designation introduced is already in use by another root designation
- The category's Id is already in use

```plantuml
@startuml
skinparam monochrome true
title Create a Child Standard Category
autonumber
actor "System Manager"
participant ":UI"
participant ":CreateStandardCategory\nController" as controller

participant ":categoryService:\nCategoryService" as cs
participant ":Category Repository" as cr
participant "parentCategory: Category" as pc

activate "System Manager" 
"System Manager"->":UI" : create new standard Category
activate ":UI"
":UI"-->"System Manager": ask data (i.e designation,parentID)
deactivate ":UI"
"System Manager"->":UI": inputs required data (designation,parentID)
activate ":UI"
":UI"->"controller": createChildStandardCategory(designation,parentID)
activate controller

controller->cs:createStandardCategory(designation,parentID)
activate cs

cs--> Designation ** :create 

Designation--> Designation : validateDesignation(Designation)
activate Designation
deactivate Designation

cs-->cr : parentCategory= findByID(parentID)
activate cr
cr-->cs : parentCategoty
deactivate cr


cs-->pc : isStandard(parentCategory)
activate pc
pc-->cs : boolean result1
deactivate pc
opt result1 == true
cs-->cs :childID= generateCategoryID()

cs-->cr :isChildDesignationUnique(Designation, childID)
activate cr

cr-->cs : boolean result2
deactivate cr

opt result2 == true
cs->"standardCategory: Standard" as sc ** :create(Designation,categoryID)
sc->"rc: RootCategory" as root ** :create(Designation,categoryID)

pc --> pc : add(standardCategory)
activate pc
deactivate pc
end
end

cs-->controller: inform success
deactivate cs

controller-->":UI":inform success
deactivate controller

":UI"-->"System Manager":inform success
deactivate ":UI"
deactivate "System Manager"
@enduml
```
The sequence diagram above represents the process of creating a standard child category.
The system manager must introduce the desired category name in the UI as input, and must point out which category is the
parent category using the id of the parent category.
The application can answer in one of two ways:
-inform success if the category is successfully created and is added to the system
-inform failure if the standard category's addition to the system fails.
This sequence diagram represents only the first option, where the child standard category is successfully
created and added to the system.
The reasons as to why the process can fail are the following:
- The System Manager introduces an invalid designation (for example an empty designation)
- The parent ID introduced corresponds to a parent category that is not standard. the system manager
  should only be able to add child categories to a standard parent category.
- The designation introduced is already in use by another child at the same level
- The category's ID is already in use

## 3.2. Class Diagram
```plantuml
@startuml
skinparam monochrome true


class CreateStandardCategoryController {
+createRootStandardCategory
+createChildStandardCategory
}

class CategoryService{
+createChildStandardCategory
+createRootStandardCategory
+generateCategoryID

}

class Category{
-categoryDesignation:String
+validate(esigantion)
+postvalidate(categoryDesignation)
}


class CategoryRepository{
-isCategoryUnique
-isRootDesignationUnique
-isChildDesignationUnique
-findByID
-add
}

class CategoryList{

}

CreateStandardCategoryController--CategoryService : categoryService
CategoryService "1" *-- "0..*" CategoryRepository : categoryRepository

@enduml
```

In the diagram class diagram above, the Controller class establishes the connection
between the UI and the business logic. The FFMApplication connects the Controller class to the
CategoryService class. After the categoryDesignation of a category is validated, it is then added to the
CategoryService class.

## 3.3. Applied Design Patterns

From GRASP pattern:
Controller,
Information Expert,
Low Coupling

From SOLID:
Single Responsibility Principle


## 3.4. Tests 

**Test 1:** Create one category successfully

    @Test
    @DisplayName("Create a valid Category")
    public void CreatingValidCategory() {
    Category standardCategory = new Category("Gastos Adicionais");
    Assertions.assertNotNull(standardCategory);
    }

**Test 2:** Create one category successfully that allows for portuguese language accents
    
    @Test
    @DisplayName("Create a valid Category with special Accents")
    public void CreatingValidCategoryWithAccents() {
    Category standardCategory = new Category("Explicações De Matemática");
    Assertions.assertNotNull(standardCategory);
    }

**Test 3:** Failure to create a category successfully due to the catagory's name having less than
3 characters
    
    @Test
    @DisplayName("Create an Invalid Category with invalid format, having less than 3 characters")
    public void CreatingCategoryWithWrongLength() {
    Throwable exception =
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> {
    Category badCategory = new Category("CC");
    });
    }

**Test 4:** Failure to create a category successfully due to the presence of numeric characters
    
    @Test
    @DisplayName("Create an Invalid Category with invalid format, having numbers")
    public void CreatingCategoryWithNumbers() {
    Throwable exception =
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> {
    Category badCategory = new Category("Compras Online546");
    });
    }

**Test 5:** Create one category unsuccessfully due to the presence of special characters
    
    @Test
    @DisplayName("Create an Invalid Category with invalid format, having special charaters")
    public void CreatingCategoryWithSpecialCharacters() {
    Throwable exception =
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> {
    Category badCategory = new Category("Compras Online!!!!!");
    });
    }

**Test 6:** Failure to add a category- null category 

    @Test
    void createCategoryNull() {

        //arrange
        //act
        //assert
        assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> {
            new Category(null);
        });
    }

**Test 7:** Create one category successfully that allows for portuguese language accents

    @Test
    void hasSameDesignationFalse() {

        //arrange
        Category category = new Category("Food");
        //act
        boolean result=category.hasSameDesignation("fooood");

        //assert
        Assertions.assertFalse(result);

    }

# 4. Implementation


    
    public Category createCategory(String categoryDesignation) {
    try {
    Category standardCategory = new Category(categoryDesignation);
    if (addCategory(standardCategory)) {
    return standardCategory;
    }

        } catch (Exception e) {
            e.printStackTrace(); //pinpoint the exact location of the exception
        }
        return null;
    }

At first, a category is created. There are some criteria that, if not met, can stop the
whole process.  For example, the cateory name has to have a certain format:
-has a minimum of letters
-cannot contain special characters
- the first letters of each word must be capitalized
  -must be filled.
  -must not have the same name as other categories

If any of these validations is not respected the new category will not be created, and the process will 
finish. as a result, the system manager will be informed that the process was not successful.
Due to the fact that there cannot be different categories with the same name, a category
identification (id) is not created, since their name is unique..


    public static String capitalizeFirstLetters(String categoryDesignation) {
    categoryDesignation = categoryDesignation.trim().toLowerCase();   //deletes space characters at the end and at the beginning of a Sting
    while (categoryDesignation.contains("  ")) { // deletes multiple space characters
    categoryDesignation = categoryDesignation.replaceAll("  ", " ");
    }
    String[] split = categoryDesignation.split(" ");
    for (int i = 0; i < split.length; i++) {
    split[i] = Character.toUpperCase(split[i].charAt(0)) + split[i].substring(1);
    }
    categoryDesignation = String.join(" ", split);
    return categoryDesignation;
    }

The code above was designed to help the user, in this case, it helps the system
manager to correct some typing errors:

-If the user capitalizes the wrong letters

-If the user inserts spacing characters at the beginning or a the end of a phrase

-If the user inserts multiple adjacent spacing characters

This portion was first designed for this specific US but, later on 
was moved to the Class Utils so that it can be used to format other
Strings such as the address or the family name.
This portion helps correct some typos and, in this US, it is later on combined with other
piece of code that guarantees that the category name only has alphabetic
characters (capitalized or not), space characters, apostrophes and accents. 
  Other special characters are not allowed.

# 5. Integration/Demo

This US is a base support for US002. This US creates and validates category names that can then
be added to a category tree.


# 6. Observations
Since the name of each category is unique, the category name was used for identification processes. 
However, in the future, if it proves beneficial, an id creation related to the category tree could be created and used
The category name's allowed characters can also change in the future

