# US106
=======================================


# 1. Requirements

>__"As a family administrator, I want to change the relation between two family members."__

## 1.1 Description

The family administrator has the possibility to update a relation between to family members.

**Demo1** As family administrator, I want to change the relation between two family members.
- Demo1.1. I select a family members to see the relation that are already defines. 
- Demo1.2. I select a family relation that connects the family member to another person.
- Demo1.3. I define the new relation type that links the two persons above.
- Demo1.4. I update the family relation.

We interpreted this requirement as a direct possibility of the family administrator to update any existent family relation that connects a member of the family to another member.

# 2. Analysis

## 2.1 Domain Model

See [US105](../sp1/US105.md).

## 2.2 Product Owner 

The same answers given for the [US105](../sp1/US105.md) are valid for this US.

## 2.3 Decisions

For the [US105](../sp1/US105.md) was decided that it would be necessary to iterate through all existent family relations stored inside a person instance to check if the relation that we want to create was already defined.
If so, we would have two possibilities:
- simply inform that the operation couldn't be done,
- or update the family relation with the relation type that the administrator wanted to create.

For [US105](../sp1/US105.md) the second options was the implemented one.

That makes the current US a simple connection of the UpdateRelationController to the function in the PersonService that creates a family relation.

## 2.4 Dependent US

- The [US105](../sp1/US105.md) as a great impact in this US.

## 2.5 System Sequence Diagram 

```puml
skinparam monochrome true
autonumber
title SSD
actor "Family Administrator"

"Family Administrator" -> "System" : update relation between two family members
activate "Family Administrator"
activate "System"
|||  
"Family Administrator" <-- "System" : List of family members

"Family Administrator" -> "System" : Select two family members
|||

"Family Administrator" <-- "System" : See relation between them
|||
"Family Administrator" <-- "System" : Ask for type new of relation

"Family Administrator" -> "System" : input relation type
|||
"Family Administrator" <-- "System" : response
deactivate "Family Administrator"
deactivate "System"

```

# 3. Design

## 3.1 Class Diagram

See [US105](../sp1/US105.md).

## 3.2 Sequence Diagram

See [US105](../sp1/US105.md).

## 3.3. Applied Design Patterns

From GRASP pattern:
Controller,
Information Expert,
Low Coupling

From SOLID:
Single Responsibility Principle

## 3.4. Tests

# 4. Implementation

The implementation of this US, forced the splitting of the [US105](../sp1/US105.md) controller.
As mentioned above, the US105 already applied the update of a family relation if it was already defined.
To prevent the duplication of the code, 3 controller were defined to answer to the functionalities of the two user stories: 105 and 106.
- UpdateRelationController
- CreateRelationController
- UpdateOrCreateRelationController (that is implemented by the controllers above)

# 5. Integration/Demo

# 6. Observations

The decision to update or create a family relation in the same method could be changed, creating two separated functionalities.
The adopted implementation tries to conciliate the two, because to create a family relation is always necessary to find out if it is already defined to avoid repetition and lack of consistency.
During this iteration through existent family relations, if one match is found, the relation type is deleted and a new one is created.